i'm gonna go to the gym a little bit
later
i could film myself but i won't
i'm gonna go grocery shopping a little
bit later
i could film myself but i won't
i'm probably going to cook food this
evening probably
would anyone in this audience want to
watch a video of that
i doubt it what's happened here on
youtube
is the creation of a cottage industry
of people filming the banal minutia
of their daily lives the meaningless
details
of themselves shopping eating
and buying clothes and presenting this
to an audience
cumulatively of tens of thousands of
people hundreds of thousands of people
millions of people and cumulatively
generating
millions of dollars now that money is
spread out pretty thin
i don't think that someone like bonnie
rebecca is making all that much money
filming herself at the grocery store but
nevertheless she has enough of a
financial incentive
to really take quite a lot of time
filming herself
doing a grocery shop right it may look
natural but you have to pause and
consider the extent to which this is an
affectation
when she films herself handling a box of
cereal
in the cereal aisle she's actually taken
her camera and set it down on a shelf
started it rolling and then you know
behaves as if she's walking down this
aisle picking up the box
she behaves as if this is effortless she
doesn't have a cameraman with her
she doesn't have a tripod she's setting
up each of these shots
aisle by aisle item by item in this
grocery store
and her grocery shopping experience is
going to take three times as long as it
would
if she just bought the groceries now
my question here is not why would the
audience
want to see this but why would the
filmmaker
think this is a meaningful and
interesting type of content to present
the audience
what happened within veganism was the
idea that there was something
instructive educational useful and even
heroic
in showing yourself buying macaroni and
cheese
because it was vegan macaroni and cheese
showing yourself
cooking the macaroni and cheese because
it was vegan
macaroni and cheese showing yourself
enjoying the macaroni and cheese
and showing yourself talking about how
it's a perfectly good
perfectly satisfying macaroni and cheese
even though it's vegan
and this is tied conceptually to a grand
sense of moral purpose
a sense of wanting to make the world a
better place
ecologically ethically animal rights
however it is you think of it and then
what you see with these ex-vegans like
body rebecca
is you take away that moral purpose you
take away that political movement that
aspiration to work
make the world a better place and yet
the
cycle of filmmaking
of producing video out of the
meaningless minutia of your daily life
still goes on the cottage industry
of of manufacturing a product that
nobody
wants for an audience who can't possibly
find these things interesting
goes on it's like a wheel a wooden wheel
that fell off the cart
and keeps rolling down the hill for a
good long while
this one in particular really got me she
says you use your thin
attractive body i mean use that's a
strong word
isn't it i mean that's just who bonnie
rebecca is she has
a thin and an attractive body what is
she yeah she was born attractive
born with tall long lean genetics yeah i
don't see why she should be penalized
for that it doesn't mean that she's a
bad person that she was born attractive
and she takes care of herself i don't
just think this is a problem with the
state of veganism
i think this is a problem with the state
of youtube people are producing
content that could only be interesting
to a viewer
in the most deprived circumstances
imaginable and it's pathetic like
you know you can laugh or you can cry
but who would find it interesting
to watch bonnie rebecca in the grocery
store this way
maybe someone who's on a refugee camp in
south sudan
who's never been in a grocery store like
that someone whose life is
so far removed from this that they
regard this as exotic and interesting
and bizarre like oh wow
look at this girl picking cereal off the
shelf i mean vegan gains sorry
he's still vegan he's not ex v he does
this too he films himself going to
costco
and trying on shoes he films himself
going to costco and buying
dry groceries it's my who
who is this for who who who do these
filmmakers imagine
is in the audience who would enjoy and
appreciate this content who would have
something to learn from it
and for the audience i mean again
veganism provided this anchor it
provided this sense of moral purpose
that justified the filmmaking justified
the presentation of the video
and justified the audience's role as all
being part of a quote unquote movement
or a quote unquote community
and the thing is now in 2019
even though i express my contempt for
these ex-vegans
there's also a limited extent to which i
can sympathize with them
because i've completely lost faith in
this movement i've completely lost
any hope for the future of this movement
um
obviously i still eat a vegan diet but i
have none of the sense of moral purpose
that i had when i started this channel
on a very basic level i don't think even
one
person is going to come into my life and
collaborate to accomplish
anything in veganism as a movement like
not to lobby government
not to publish a magazine article or
publish a book
not even to collaborate on a youtube
video like
my expectations of my fellow vegans have
gotten lower and lower and lower
there isn't anything immoral about
filming yourself while you buy your
groceries
and i don't think there's anything
immoral about an audience
that finds it fascinating to watch
someone
buy cook and eat their groceries
[Music]
but i think there's something for us to
pause and reflect on here
ex-vegans tend to go through a
transitional period
where they at first want to glorify
their own sense of having done something
edgy and bold
in having overcome having challenged
the ethical lines they drew for
themselves in becoming vegan you hear a
lot of that kind of self-congratulation
from them
you hear them boasting that they decided
to do what was right for them
despite being conditioned or despite
being part of a cult or however
they put it so they often go through a
brief period where they try to valorize
their meat eating as a moral cause
that's tantamount to veganism that's
equal to veganism
they try to valorize their being
omnivores or carnivores
as if it's now going to provide a sense
of meaning and direction in their lives
the way that veganism did before now a
strict
plant-based diet worked for me for many
years
and then it didn't i had to accept and
admit to myself
that the needs of my body were changing
i listened to
my body it's not about like judging
something as being right or wrong
it's about being open it's about being
motivated
it's about being truthful with yourself
i feel empowered i feel
excited i feel empowered to make the
decisions
that are right for me regardless of what
others
may think and i'm feeling inspired for
the journey that lies ahead of me
i truly believe that we have created
this community for a purpose
so i am going to continue sharing my
life
sharing my healthy journey to help you
become a better healthier version of
yourself
they try to valorize their being
omnivores or carnivores
as if it's now going to provide a sense
of meaning and direction in their lives
the way that veganism did before and
then soon enough
that ends that fades away
and what's left what's left is a cycle
of the most meaningless filmmaking
imaginable
what's left is someone like bonnie
rebecca or someone like kasumi chris
filming themselves going through the
meaningless actions of their daily life
that could only be meaningful to an
audience
so far removed from that normality
that they regard it as exotic or
incomprehensible
now five years ago four years ago
three years ago i was warning people in
the vegan movement
look we've got to do more than this
we've got to be more than this we've got
to have a real community we're going to
have
we've got to have real collaboration
real organization we've got to become a
real
movement but even within filmmaking
we should be looking for talent and
direction and meaning
you know i say all the time we gotta
write new children's story books and
produce new children's stories gotta
produce
cartoons and kids shows and puppet shows
but hey if you want to produce the vegan
equivalent to game of thrones a drama
for adults there are a lot of challenges
if you think about
youtube as filmmaking or you think about
the future of veganism and filmmaking
and what
what can be done um
but precisely what people were drawn to
was this kind of you know pg-13
pornography this incredibly diluted
pornography constructed out of bits and
pieces of the banal details
of of their coten habits i mean that's
just
who bonnie rebecca is she has a thin and
an attractive body what is she
she was born attractive born with tall
long
lean genetics the salacious promise
of people like durianrider and freely
telling you all you have to do is come
on the internet
and wear a bikini you know show off your
body as a man or a woman
and promise people they can get the same
great diet results and you'll have money
and fame and
you know that was maybe
easier for the audience to be aware of
like they could see the bait
and they could see the hook that the
bait was hanging from
you know you could see the incentive you
could see what people were doing to get
that incentive and you could see what
was wrong with it
stood out but
the uh the ever more meaningless
cycle of autobiographizing your daily
life
the way in which that became the
predominant mode
of vegan activism and people used to say
to me people who say to me positively
they say why don't you do the same thing
people say to me why don't you quit your
job why don't you drop out of your
education
and why don't you just become a
full-time vegan activist
and what they meant was why don't you
become a full-time cinema verite
filmmaker
who films yourself cooking and doing
grocery shopping and cleaning the dishes
and trying on clothes and shoes you know
and look i just bought a new pair of
vegan shoes and i may do a video
talking about whether or not those shoes
are any good but if i do
it's because i believe that review of
that product that shoe
actually serves a function for the
audience and instead what we got was a
type of filmmaking
that had had no relationship to the
audience that no utility
had no purpose and no point for the
audience and
bit by bit i think this poisoned the
outlook of the movement
where where we had a movement that
existed likewise
for no other purpose no other purpose
other than producing the self-same
lifestyle
that was packaged marketed and sold
right here on youtube
[Music]